# Creating or Importing Projects

## Creating a Project from Scratch

**Serein** provides the `init` or `i` command to help you initialize a project managed by **Serein** from scratch.

If you wish to create a ScriptAPI resource pack from the beginning, this method of creating a project is recommended because projects created by **Serein** are quite standard and easy to maintain!

Here's how to use it:

```bash
serein init
```

After executing the command, **Serein** will ask you interactively about the project information (such as name, version, dependencies, etc.), and then it will generate a set of project templates and build tools for you.

### Using Default Settings

You can also use the default settings to quickly generate a project. Projects generated this way will include the project structure and also come with the latest version of the `@minecraft/server` dependency:

```bash
serein init -y
```

### Project Structure

The newly created project will contain the following files:

```
├── node_modules
├── behavior_packs
│   ├── manifest.json
│   └── pack_icon.png (randomly generated based on the hash of the resource pack name)
├── resource_packs (optional)
│   ├── manifest.json
│   └── pack_icon.png (randomly generated based on the hash of the resource pack name)
├── scripts
│   └── main.js/ts (or the entry file specified by the user)
├── package.json
├── gulpfile.js (related to the automatic build process)
├── tsconfig.json (only if TypeScript is selected)
├── .serein.json (Serein's information file)
└── .mcattributes (to disable warnings from the official vscode plugin)

```

## Importing from an Existing Project

::: warning
This feature is currently under-tested. ScriptAPI developers are welcome to test with their own projects and provide feedback!
:::

**Serein** offers the `adapt` and `a` commands to adapt to an existing project.

### Prerequisites

Here are a few reminders for importing projects into **Serein**:

-   ❯ The project's behavior pack folder (as referred to in the official documentation as `behavior_packs`) should not act as the top level of the resource pack. This layout is considered <font color="red">hellish</font> for adaptation by packaging tools!

    For example, this file layout is not valid (at the top level of the resource pack):

    ```
    ├── manifest.json
    ├── package.json
    └── scripts
    ```

    If you don't want your final packaged product to include a whole set of `node_modules` and `package.json`, it's best to abandon such chaotic layouts.

    A more ideal resource pack layout would look like this:

    ```
    ├── behavior_packs
    │   ├── manifest.json
    │   └── scripts
    └── package.json
    ```

-   ❯ Do not have a self-written **gulpfile**

    If you have read [Microsoft's official starter article](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/minecraft/creator/documents/scriptinggettingstarted), you might have learned to use the **gulp** tool and added some content to it according to your needs ~~(if you used gulp but haven't modified `gulpfile.js`, it's fine, our `gulpfile.js` is much more robust XD)~~. In this case, be aware that the new `gulpfile.js` generated by **Serein** may overwrite your previously written file.

    Fortunately, if there's an existing `gulpfile.js`, **Serein** will ask whether to overwrite it and can help you backup, allowing you to add your previous functionalities into the new `gulpfile.js` (our `gulpfile.js` is more editable than the official one).

### Importing Process

Execute the following command:

```bash
serein adapt
```

Just follow the interactive process to provide your package information. If paths need to be filled in, make sure to provide relative paths based on the current path.

After the process is completed, **Serein** will generate a `.serein.json` file in the directory, indicating that the project can now be used with **Serein**!

### Behavior Explanation

**Serein** might also perform the following actions when adapting a project, please be aware of these actions as they might affect you:

-   ❯ Change the `type` property in `package.json` to `module`.
-   ❯ Move existing `@minecraft` prefixed dependencies and auto-packaging related dependencies from `dependencies ` to `devDependencies` in `package.json`.
-   ❯ Remove comments from the `manifest.json` file in your behavior pack directory.
